# Module 2.1: How to Find Your Seed Prospects

Hey, it's Sam Oh and welcome to the second
module which is all about link prospecting.
Now, I've structured this module in three
lessons where each lesson represents
a step in creating personalized and
scalable link building campaigns.
Step 1 is to find your seed prospects,
which&nbsp;is what this lesson is all about.
Step 2 is to find lookalike prospects based
on your seeds, which will broaden the scope
of your link building campaign.
And step 3 is to segment your prospects
which will help you scale your&nbsp;campaigns
in a personalized way.
So let's get started with&nbsp;finding seed prospects.
Seed prospects are simply people who
link to&nbsp;a page for a specific reason.
For example, did they link because of a specific&nbsp;
point that was made in the content, is it because
they like the brand,&nbsp;or was it something else?
Now, finding seed prospects is important
because it'll do two things for you.
#1. You'll understand why
people are linking to a&nbsp;page,
and #2. Because you know why, you'll know
how to approach them in your outreach pitch.
And&nbsp;we'll get into some examples in a bit.
Now, the most important skill for a prospector
to have when it comes to finding seed prospects
is the ability to identify patterns.
And by pattern, I'm referring to common
reasons for linking or a commonality
among linking pages.
Now, we've already gone through a couple
of examples in the previous module,
but I want to talk about how you can
find opportunities for your own site.
And it's really just about looking for patterns
in three places when analyzing a competing
page's link profile.
And these places are:
The context of the backlinks, which help&nbsp;you
understand why people are linking to a&nbsp;page.
And we'll specifically be looking
at anchors and surrounding text.
The referring pages' titles which tells you
where their links are coming from and/or
the types of pages they're coming from.
And the actual content, which tells you
what your email pitch will be based on.
So let's start off by looking at the&nbsp;context
of links to a competing page.
Just as I showed you in lesson 1.2., studying
the anchors of a competing page's backlinks
can help you understand why
people&nbsp;linked to a page.
And these "whys" can often be
considered as "linkable points."
For example, when we created our SEO stats
page, we looked at the anchors profile for top
ranking pages.
And we immediately noticed that the majority
of links were attributable&nbsp;to specific stats
that were mentioned.
This is a pattern.
Now, if we click on the 93%&nbsp;anchor, it'll open
up the backlinks report with&nbsp;that anchor set
in the filters.
And as you can see, the context of the
link is "93% of online&nbsp;experiences begin
with a search engine."
Now, this stat alone doesn't
help with a&nbsp;pitch angle.
You have to look for a pitch&nbsp;angle
that's related to the stat.
And it was&nbsp;pretty easy for us to come up
with one because if you click through to
that page, you'll&nbsp;see that 93%
isn't even mentioned on it.
Plus, the stat was around a decade old,
meaning it's completely irrelevant today
because the way we use
the&nbsp;internet has changed a lot.
So as a pitch angle, we could say something&nbsp;
like, "hey, you mentioned this stat,&nbsp;but where
did you get it from?
The page&nbsp;you're linking to doesn't say that.
Plus, recent stats show that&nbsp;68% of online
experiences begin&nbsp;with a search engine."
Blah blah blah.
Alright, let's move on to the second place
to look&nbsp;and that's the referring page titles
of a competing page's backlinks.
In the previous module, we discovered some
pages that are linking to a link building guide.
And the reason for them linking is because
that guide used to have an ebook.
So as you can see from the anchors,
the linking pages are saying to go and
download an ebook.
Now, seeing as&nbsp;there's really only a few
good linking pages,&nbsp;it wouldn't be worth
creating an&nbsp;ebook to maybe get a few links.
We need to look for a commonality that can
potentially expand our pool of prospects.
And that commonality is in
the titles of&nbsp;referring pages.
As you can see, all of the titles
are listicles on free SEO ebooks.
So our&nbsp;seed prospects are
listicles on SEO ebooks.
As for the pitch angle, we can simply pitch
a free ebook without any kind of opt-in,
which many of their recommendations&nbsp;use.
Not a great benefit packed pitch,
but it's a good starting point.
Alright, the third place to look for
patterns is the actual content itself.
And the&nbsp;easiest thing you can look for is incorrect,
dangerous, or outdated recommendations.
Now, this one is quite situational but
nevertheless, it's something worth
paying&nbsp;attention to because it works pretty well.
I'll&nbsp;give you an example in the SEO industry.
So this page on LSI keywords
has over 500 referring domains.
But there's no such thing as LSI keywords.
LSI stands for latent semantic&nbsp;indexing and
in short, it's an indexing method&nbsp;and has
nothing to do with keywords.
Now, today, this page explains that
LSI keywords aren't really a thing.
But when it was first published, it was
a full blown guide on how to use these
quote unquote "LSI keywords."
Meaning, everyone&nbsp;who linked to the page prior
to the update was&nbsp;linking to inaccurate information.
So our seed prospects are anyone who's
linking to this guide, prior to it being&nbsp;updated.
Or anyone who's recommending
their readers to use "LSI Keywords."
As for the pitch, we could just tell them&nbsp;that
there's no such thing as LSI keywords and
recommend our content which explains what LSI
is,&nbsp;how it actually works, and also mention that
we talk about whether using related words,
phrases, and entities actually helps to rank
higher in Google – meaning, we address the
reason why they recommended using these
so-called, "LSI keywords" in the first place.
Now, these are just a few places to
look that can help surface some unique
prospecting opportunities.
But you don't&nbsp;need to limit yourself to these
because&nbsp;then you're stuck in the box of Sam.
The point of this lesson is to show you
how finding a pattern or footprint that
has a pitch angle baked into it can be the
foundation for link outreach campaigns.
This is a skill that I highly recommend
working on because it's what you'll need
to find seed prospects.
From there, it's just about following that footprint
to&nbsp;find more prospects like your seeds.
And in the next lesson, we're going to talk about
using your seeds to expand your list of prospects
as well as the tools you can use.
I'll see you there.